\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename kasten.info
@settitle Kasten Manual
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for Kasten (version 0.90.0, last updated 2025-07-09), which is
an Emacs package for managing Zettelkasten-style notes.

Copyright @copyright{} 2025 Qiyang Sun

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts,
and with no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in
the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License''.

@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Kasten Mode: (kasten). Zettelkasten note browser.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title Kasten Manual
@subtitle for version 0.90.0, last updated 2025-07-09
@author Qiyang Sun
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Kasten Manual

@insertcopying

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Synopsis::
* Copying::
* Concepts::
* Features::
* Installation::
* Usage::
* Customisation::
* Benchmark::
* Contributing::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
* GNU General Public License::
* Too Long; Didn't Read::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Copying

* Copying Kasten (Software)::
* Copying Kasten Manual (Documentation)::

Installation

* Tarball::
* Manual Installation::

Usage

* Kasten Major Mode and Kasten Minor Mode::
* Kasten Major Mode::
* Kasten Minor Mode::

Kasten Major Mode

* Live Search::
* Filters::

Customisation

* Customisable Variables::
* Customisable Functions and Hooks::
* Customisable Faces::

Contributing

* Reporting Slowness::
* Reporting Security Concerns::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Synopsis
@chapter Synopsis

@samp{Kasten} is an @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/, Emacs} package designed to provide a focused and efficient
browsing experience for @uref{https://zettelkasten.de/, Zettelkasten}-style notes.

Kasten is inspired by @uref{https://melpa.org/#/deft, Deft} and @uref{https://melpa.org/#/zetteldeft, Zetteldeft}.

@node Copying
@chapter Copying

@itemize
@item
Kasten is not part of GNU Emacs.
@item
Kasten is free software.
@item
Kasten Manual is free documentation.
@end itemize

@menu
* Copying Kasten (Software)::
* Copying Kasten Manual (Documentation)::
@end menu

@node Copying Kasten (Software)
@section Copying Kasten (Software)

Kasten is licensed under the GNU General Public License Version 3.

See the file @samp{COPYING} or the appendix @ref{GNU General Public License} for details.

@strong{Copyright (C) 2025 Qiyang Sun}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE@. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see @uref{https://www.gnu.org/licenses/}.

@node Copying Kasten Manual (Documentation)
@section Copying Kasten Manual (Documentation)

Kasten Manual is licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License Version 1.3.

See the file @samp{docs/COPYING} or the appendix @ref{GNU Free Documentation License} for
details.

@strong{Copyright (C) 2025 Qiyang Sun}

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the
terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no
Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is
included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License''.

@node Concepts
@chapter Concepts

``Zettelkasten'' is a note-taking and personal knowledge management system
intensively used by Niklas Luhmann et al.  In Zettelkasten, notes should be
atomic, connected through meaningful links.

The introduction to Zettelkasten method can be found online, such as
@uref{https://zettelkasten.de/} and @uref{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zettelkasten}.
Readers may wish to refer to the literature as the Kasten Manual does not
provide a detailed introduction to the Zettelkasten methodology itself.

Kasten is inspired by Zetteldeft, a Zettelkasten system on top of Deft.  Deft is
a note browsing system inspired by Notational Velocity.

Kasten is designed base on the following ideas in mind.
@itemize
@item
The system should be highly customisable.
@item
The system should be fast.
@item
Each note has a unique ID as its filename, typically derived from the creation
time.
@item
Notes can be linked to each other by inserting IDs.
@item
Notes can be tagged.  A note may have zero, one or many tags.
@item
Notes can be categorised.  A note may have zero or one category.  This is
against the Zettelkasten principles, but Kasten users should have the right to
category their notes should they wish to, for example, if they have their own
philosophies of knowledge management.
@end itemize

@node Features
@chapter Features

This package has the following main features:
@itemize
@item
Browse notes with titles, categories and IDs displayed.
@itemize
@item
Titles are indexed by looking for a @samp{#+title:} pattern (customisable).
@item
Categories are indexed by looking for a @samp{#+category:} pattern
(customisable).
@item
The index can be configured to update automatically.
@end itemize
@item
Deft-like live search available.
@item
Title and category filters for advanced search.
@item
Note searching significantly faster than deft.
@itemize
@item
Heavy content search @samp{consult-ripgrep} (needs package @uref{https://melpa.org/#/consult, consult},
customisable).
@item
Limited use of @samp{string-match} (@kbd{C-h f string-match @key{RET}}).
@end itemize
@item
ID format fully customisable (with the ability to include sanitised title).
@item
Followable note IDs for easy navigation.
@item
ID is changable with auto-update references.
@item
Insert tags and note IDs with auto-completion support.
@item
Backlink searching to find references between notes.
@item
Functions to get note path and attachment directory path for integration with
other packages.
@item
Customisable user interface.
@end itemize

@node Installation
@chapter Installation

@menu
* Tarball::
* Manual Installation::
@end menu

@node Tarball
@section Tarball

@enumerate
@item
Download the latest release tarball and signature (@samp{*.sig}) from the @uref{https://github.com/iamsqy/kasten/releases, GitHub
Releases page}.
@item
Verify PGP signature.
@example
# 2.1 Receive the maintainer's PGP key
gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys F8AD5243C3CFB24E
# 2.2 Verify
gpg --verify /path/to/kasten.tar.gz
# if the output is not "gpg: Good signature from...", then STOP!
@end example
@item
GitHub does not allow uploading @samp{.tar} files in Release. If the
file has extension @samp{.tar.gz}, extract it.
@example
gzip -d /path/to/kasten.tar.gz
@end example
@item
In Emacs, run
@code{M-x} @code{package-install-file} @code{<RET>} @code{/path/to/kasten.tar} @code{<RET>}
@end enumerate

@node Manual Installation
@section Manual Installation

Clone or download @samp{kasten.el} and place it in the @samp{load-path}. Then add the
following to the Emacs configuration file (such as @samp{init.el}):

@lisp
(require 'kasten)
@end lisp

@node Usage
@chapter Usage

@menu
* Kasten Major Mode and Kasten Minor Mode::
* Kasten Major Mode::
* Kasten Minor Mode::
@end menu

@node Kasten Major Mode and Kasten Minor Mode
@section Kasten Major Mode and Kasten Minor Mode

Kasten major mode (@samp{kasten-mode}) is for note browsing, filtering and editing,
similar to Deft.  For Kasten major mode map and usage, see @ref{Kasten Major Mode}.
Kasten minor mode (@samp{kasten-minor-mode}) is for invoking Kasten methods whilst
visiting a note.  For Kasten minor mode map and usage, see @ref{Kasten Minor Mode}.

@deffn Command kasten
Launch Kasten major mode with @kbd{M-x kasten @key{RET}}.
@end deffn

Kasten minor mode is enabled by default if the note buffer is created by Kasten.
Kasten minor mode has a lighter @samp{Kt} (customisable).

@deffn Command kasten-minor-mode
Toggle @code{kasten-minor-mode} for current buffer.
@end deffn

Refer to the Emacs Lisp code for detailed function and variable documentation.

@node Kasten Major Mode
@section Kasten Major Mode

@table @asis
@item @kbd{@key{RET}} (@code{kasten-open-file})
@kindex RET
@findex kasten-open-file
Open the note file on the current line by matching filename.

@item @kbd{/} (@code{kasten-live-search})
@kindex /
@findex kasten-live-search
Live search notes by title, category or ID@.

@item @kbd{?} (@code{kasten-filters-edit})
@kindex ?
@findex kasten-filters-edit
Open a buffer for editing the Kasten filters.

@item @kbd{g} (@code{kasten-refresh})
@kindex g
@findex kasten-refresh
Refresh

@item @kbd{s} (@code{kasten-search})
@kindex s
@findex kasten-search
Search using ‘kasten-search-function’.

@item @kbd{t} (@code{kasten-search-tag})
@kindex t
@findex kasten-search-tag
Prompt and search for a tag.

@item @kbd{n} (@code{kasten-create-new-note})
@kindex n
@findex kasten-create-new-note
Create and open a new Kasten note.
@end table

@menu
* Live Search::
* Filters::
@end menu

@node Live Search
@subsection Live Search

In a Live Search, one can type anywhere to search titles, categories and IDs.
It is unnecessary to place the point into the text box---a temporary key map is
used to handle input, supporting letters, symbols and non-ASCII characters.
Case is insensitive.

@vtable @asis
@item @kbd{C-g} (@code{kasten--quit-live-search})
@itemx @kbd{@key{ESC} @key{ESC} @key{ESC}} (@code{kasten--quit-live-search})
@kindex C-g
@kindex ESC ESC ESC
@findex kasten--quit-live-search
Quit live search and reset to normal Kasten.

@item @kbd{@key{DEL}}
@kindex DEL
Delete the last input character.

@item @kbd{@key{RET}} (@code{kasten-open-file})
@kindex RET
@findex kasten-open-file
Open the note file on the current line by matching filename.
@end vtable


A letter @samp{s} will appear next to Kasten buffer title indicating Live Search is
activated.

@node Filters
@subsection Filters

With Filters, one can filter titles and/or categories.

By invoking @samp{kasten-filters-edit}, a new buffer @samp{*Kasten Filters*} is
created.  This buffer is in @code{kasten-filters-mode}, for users to edit filters.

Lines starting with a @samp{%} symbol are read-only comments.  Lines starting with a
@samp{#} are read-only headers which will be parsed.

@table @asis
@item Title filters
Enter titles one per line.  Case is insensitive.  A note will be displayed if
it has at least one title filter as its substring.  Use of Emacs regular
expressions is allowed.  Leave this field empty to keep all notes.

@item Category filters
Enter categories one per line.  Case is sensitive.  A note will be displayed
if it has a category and the category is exactly one of the category filters.
Leave this field empty to keep all notes.

@item Mode
Logic operator for the filter operation.  May be either `and' or `or'.  If
only one of the title filters and category filters is needed, use `and'.
@end table


Kasten-Filters mode has the following key bindings.

@table @asis
@item @kbd{C-c C-c} (@code{kasten-filters-save-and-kill})
@kindex C-c C-c
@findex kasten-filters-save-and-kill
Try to parse the buffer contents and apply them to Kasten filters, then kill
this buffer and delete the selected window.

@item @kbd{C-c C-k} (@code{kill-buffer-and-window})
@kindex C-c C-k
@findex kill-buffer-and-window
Kill the Kasten-Filters buffer and delete the selected window; discard any
changes to the filters.

@item @kbd{C-c C-t} (@code{kasten-filters--toggle-the-mode})
@kindex C-c C-t
@findex kasten-filters--toggle-the-mode
Toggle the mode on the current line between `or' and `and'.  Only valid if the
point is placed on the mode text (placed on the text `or' or `and').
@end table


A letter @samp{f} will appear next to Kasten buffer title indicating Kasten Filters
are activated.

@node Kasten Minor Mode
@section Kasten Minor Mode

@table @asis
@item @kbd{C-c C-k k} (@code{kasten})
@kindex C-c C-k k
@findex kasten
Back to Kasten major mode.

@item @kbd{C-c C-k b} (@code{kasten-show-backlinks-current-note})
@kindex C-c C-k b
@findex kasten-show-backlinks-current-note
Show all notes that link to the current note by ID@.

@item @kbd{C-c C-k i} (@code{kasten-insert-id})
@kindex C-c C-k i
@findex kasten-insert-id
Prompt to insert an ID referencing a note.

@item @kbd{C-c C-k I} (@code{kasten-change-id})
@kindex C-c C-k I
@findex kasten-change-id
Change occurrences of OLD-ID to a new ID in all note files.

For each file that contains OLD-ID, ask whether to replace it.

@item @kbd{C-c C-k n} (@code{kasten-create-new-note-at-point})
@kindex C-c C-k n
@findex kasten-create-new-note-at-point
Create a new note linked from the current one.

Insert ID at point and add a backlink from the new note to the current one.

@item @kbd{C-c C-k t} (@code{kasten-insert-tag})
@kindex C-c C-k t
@findex kasten-insert-tag
Prompt to insert an existing or new tag at point.

@item @kbd{C-c C-k T} (@code{kasten-search-tag})
@kindex C-c C-k T
@findex kasten-search-tag
Prompt and search for a tag.
@end table

@node Customisation
@chapter Customisation

@menu
* Customisable Variables::
* Customisable Functions and Hooks::
* Customisable Faces::
@end menu

@node Customisable Variables
@section Customisable Variables

Kasten is customisable using @samp{customize}, via @kbd{M-x customize-group @key{RET} kasten @key{RET}}. Alternatively, one may use @code{setq}.  For
example, to change the variable @samp{kasten-directory} to @samp{~/notes} using @code{setq},
one may add the following code to their Emacs configuration file (such as
@samp{init.el}, preferably under @samp{use-package}).

@lisp
(setq kasten-directory (expand-file-name "~/notes/"))
@end lisp

Default values in the manual may be evaluated, simplified or slightly modified.
Please refer to the source code and search for @samp{defcustom}.


@defvar kasten-directory
Note directory.

Default value: @samp{~/jrn/}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-file-extensions
List of searchable file extensions for Kasten.

Default value: @samp{("org" "txt" "tex")}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-default-extension
Default extension for new notes.

Default value: @samp{org}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-note-title-template
Template for new notes.

Default value: @samp{#+title:}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-index-hidden-files
If non-nil, include dot files when indexing.
May cause problem if backup files present in the directory.

Default value: @samp{nil}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-search-function
Function used for searching within the Kasten directory.

Default value: @samp{consult-ripgrep}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-title-regexp
Regexp to match the title of a note.

Default value: @samp{"^#\\+[tT][iI][tT][lL][eE]: *\\(.*\\)$"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-title-max-pos
Max position of the title of a note.
Depth for Kasten to match ‘kasten-title-regexp’.

Default value: @samp{4096}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-category-regexp
Regexp to match the category of a note.

Default value: @samp{"^#\\+[cC][aA][tT][eE][gG][oO][rR][yY]: *\\(.*\\)$"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-empty-category-placeholder
If non-empty, display in category field for uncategorised notes.
Leave empty to omit empty category for uncategorised notes.

Default value: @samp{""}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-category-max-pos
Max position of the category of a note.
Depth for Kasten to match ‘kasten-category-regexp’.

Default value: @samp{4096}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-title-category-split
Split title and category in Kasten view.

Default value: @samp{" --- "}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-tag-regexp
Regexp to match a tag of a note.

Default value: @samp{"#\\([[:alnum:]_-]+\\)"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-tag-max-pos
Max position of the title of a note.
Depth for Kasten to match ‘kasten-tag-regexp’.

Default value: @samp{65536}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-tag-symbol
Leading symbol for tag.

Default value: @samp{"#"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-tag-first-char-regexp
Regexp for the tag char to make ‘kasten-search-function’ understand.

If using ‘consult-ripgrep’, use ‘\x23’ instead of ‘#’.

Default value: @samp{"\\x23"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-id-symbol
Leading symbol for ID@.

Default value: @samp{"§"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-id-format
Time format for generating ID@.  Use ‘%E’ for shortened title.
See man page ‘strftime(3)’ for wildcards.

Default value: @samp{"%y%m%d-%H%M-%E"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-folder-timeformat
Time format for folder.
See man page ‘strftime(3)’ for wildcards.

Default value: @samp{"%Y%m"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-id-clash-time-inc
Time interval to increment if the time-based ID clashes, in seconds.
Set to 60 for 1 minute.

Default value: @samp{60}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-id-regexp
Regexp for an ID in a note.

Default value: @samp{"§\\([0-9]\\@{6\\@}-[0-9]\\@{4\\@}\\)"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-backlink-comment
Insert before backlink ID when creating new note at point.

Default value: @samp{#+backlink:}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-buffer-title
Kasten mode buffer title.

Default value: @samp{"Kasten"}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-minor-mode-lighter
Function used for searching within the Kasten directory.

Default value: @samp{Kt}.
@end defvar

@defvar kasten-auto-refresh
If non-nil, automatically refresh Kasten buffer when files change.

Default value: @samp{t}.
@end defvar

@node Customisable Functions and Hooks
@section Customisable Functions and Hooks

If the ID contains title (for example, using @samp{§250229-23 332. 2. -foo} as ID of the
note created on 2025-02-29 at 23:33 titled @samp{foo}), one can customise how to
convert the note title to a safer string which can be used as part of the
filename.

@defvar kasten-safetitle-function
Function to convert a title to a safe short string.

Default value: @samp{kasten--default-safetitle}.
@end defvar

@defun kasten--default-safetitle
Default safetitle function to convert TITLE to max 8 char string.
@end defun

@node Customisable Faces
@section Customisable Faces

@defopt kasten-buffer-title-face
Face for the Kasten buffer title.

Default attributes: @samp{((:family . unspecified) (:foundry . unspecified) (:width . unspecified) (:height . unspecified) (:weight . unspecified) (:slant . unspecified) (:underline . unspecified) (:overline . unspecified) (:extend . unspecified) (:strike-through . unspecified) (:box . unspecified) (:inverse-video . unspecified) (:foreground . unspecified) (:background . unspecified) (:stipple . unspecified) (:inherit . unspecified))}
@end defopt

@defopt kasten-file-title-face
Face for file titles in Kasten.

Default attributes: @samp{((:family . unspecified) (:foundry . unspecified) (:width . unspecified) (:height . unspecified) (:weight . unspecified) (:slant . unspecified) (:underline . unspecified) (:overline . unspecified) (:extend . unspecified) (:strike-through . unspecified) (:box . unspecified) (:inverse-video . unspecified) (:foreground . unspecified) (:background . unspecified) (:stipple . unspecified) (:inherit . unspecified))}
@end defopt

@defopt kasten-title-category-split-face
Face for title category split in Kasten.

Default attributes: @samp{((:family . unspecified) (:foundry . unspecified) (:width . unspecified) (:height . unspecified) (:weight . unspecified) (:slant . unspecified) (:underline . unspecified) (:overline . unspecified) (:extend . unspecified) (:strike-through . unspecified) (:box . unspecified) (:inverse-video . unspecified) (:foreground . unspecified) (:background . unspecified) (:stipple . unspecified) (:inherit . unspecified))}
@end defopt

@defopt kasten-file-category-face
Face for categories in Kasten.

Default attributes: @samp{((:family . unspecified) (:foundry . unspecified) (:width . unspecified) (:height . unspecified) (:weight . unspecified) (:slant . unspecified) (:underline . unspecified) (:overline . unspecified) (:extend . unspecified) (:strike-through . unspecified) (:box . unspecified) (:inverse-video . unspecified) (:foreground . unspecified) (:background . unspecified) (:stipple . unspecified) (:inherit . unspecified))}
@end defopt

@defopt kasten-file-name-face
Face for filenames in Kasten.

Default attributes: @samp{((:family . unspecified) (:foundry . unspecified) (:width . unspecified) (:height . unspecified) (:weight . unspecified) (:slant . unspecified) (:underline . unspecified) (:overline . unspecified) (:extend . unspecified) (:strike-through . unspecified) (:box . unspecified) (:inverse-video . unspecified) (:foreground . unspecified) (:background . unspecified) (:stipple . unspecified) (:inherit . unspecified))}
@end defopt

@defopt kasten-live-search-edit-face
Face for categories in Kasten.

Default attributes: @samp{((:family . unspecified) (:foundry . unspecified) (:width . unspecified) (:height . unspecified) (:weight . unspecified) (:slant . unspecified) (:underline . unspecified) (:overline . unspecified) (:extend . unspecified) (:strike-through . unspecified) (:box . unspecified) (:inverse-video . unspecified) (:foreground . unspecified) (:background . unspecified) (:stipple . unspecified) (:inherit . unspecified))}
@end defopt

@defopt kasten-button-face
Face for categories in Kasten.

Default attributes: @samp{((:family . unspecified) (:foundry . unspecified) (:width . unspecified) (:height . unspecified) (:weight . unspecified) (:slant . unspecified) (:underline . unspecified) (:overline . unspecified) (:extend . unspecified) (:strike-through . unspecified) (:box . unspecified) (:inverse-video . unspecified) (:foreground . unspecified) (:background . unspecified) (:stipple . unspecified) (:inherit . unspecified))}
@end defopt

The prompt text @samp{Live search:} in Live Search uses default face @samp{shadow}.

In Kasten Filters, lines start with @samp{%} use @samp{font-lock-comment-face}; lines
start with @samp{#} use @samp{font-lock-keyword-face}.

@node Benchmark
@chapter Benchmark

1000 files (~5.9G) are generated using the following script to benchmark Kasten.

@example
#!/bin/bash
for i in @{1..1000@}; do
    dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1k count=4096 of="random_$@{i@}.bin" status=none
    base64 -i "random_$@{i@}.bin" -o "random_$@{i@}.txt"
    rm "random_$@{i@}.bin"
done
@end example

The following benchmark is obtained by @kbd{M-x benchmark} using Emacs
30.1, on an Apple Darwin machine with Apple SSD@.  Variables @samp{gc-cons-threshold}
and @samp{gc-cons-percentage} are set to @code{16000000} and @code{0.1}, accordingly.

@multitable {aaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Package
@tab Form
@tab Elapsed Time
@tab Garbage Collections
@item Deft
@tab @samp{(deft)}
@tab 148.025919s
@tab 86
@item Kasten
@tab @samp{(kasten)}
@tab 0.682055s
@tab 1
@item Kasten
@tab @samp{(kasten-change-id "oldid")}
@tab 11.295669s
@tab 0
@end multitable

@node Contributing
@chapter Contributing

Contributions and bug reports are welcome!  For code contributions, please open
pull requests on GitHub.  For general issues (except security concerns), please
open issues on GitHub.

@menu
* Reporting Slowness::
* Reporting Security Concerns::
@end menu

@node Reporting Slowness
@section Reporting Slowness

Users are encouraged to report any significant slowness of Kasten! If possible,
please include the following information, but please @strong{do not include any
sensitive information}:
@itemize
@item
Emacs version (@kbd{M-x emacs-version @key{RET}})
@item
Kasten version
@item
Operating system (@samp{uname -a})
@item
Number of indexed files (@samp{ls -1 /path/to/notes | wc -l})
@item
Total size of indexed files (@samp{du -sh /path/to/notes})
@item
Profiler report (@kbd{M-x profiler-start @key{RET} @key{RET}}, perform action,
@kbd{M-x profiler-stop @key{RET}}, and then @kbd{M-x profiler-report @key{RET}}
@item
Benchmark of the slow function (@kbd{M-x benchmark @key{RET}} followed by the
function and @kbd{@key{RET}})
@end itemize

@node Reporting Security Concerns
@section Reporting Security Concerns

If you found any vulnerabilities or would like to report any security concerns,
please @strong{do not} use any public channels.  Please contact the package author via
email.  Please @strong{sign} and @strong{encrypt} your email with PGP@footnote{@uref{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy, Pretty Good Privacy},
see also @uref{https://gnupg.org, GnuPG}}.  @strong{Encrypted plain text email} MIMEs are preferred (do not use
@code{multipart/alternative} to include HTML copies of the email).

@table @asis
@item Key Server
@uref{https://keyserver.ubuntu.com/, hkps://keyserver.ubuntu.com}
@item Email Address
@code{iamsqy αt outlo◯k d0t c○m} @footnote{Please replace @samp{at}, @samp{dot}, etc. to actual
symbols and characters.}
@item Key ID
@code{F8AD5243C3CFB24E}
@item Primary key fingerprint
@code{548E 2320 AFD8 0063 1C76  274C F8AD 5243 C3CF B24E}
@end table

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@example

                GNU Free Documentation License
                 Version 1.3, 3 November 2008


 Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     <https://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

0. PREAMBLE

The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to
assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it,
with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.
Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way
to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible
for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.  It
complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
software, because free software needs free documentation: a free
program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the
software does.  But this License is not limited to software manuals;
it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or
whether it is published as a printed book.  We recommend this License
principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.


1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be
distributed under the terms of this License.  Such a notice grants a
world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that
work under the conditions stated herein.  The "Document", below,
refers to any such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a
licensee, and is addressed as "you".  You accept the license if you
copy, modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission
under copyright law.

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
modifications and/or translated into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of
the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall
subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall
directly within that overall subject.  (Thus, if the Document is in
part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain
any mathematics.)  The relationship could be a matter of historical
connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,
commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding
them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles
are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice
that says that the Document is released under this License.  If a
section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not
allowed to be designated as Invariant.  The Document may contain zero
Invariant Sections.  If the Document does not identify any Invariant
Sections then there are none.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed,
as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License.  A Front-Cover Text may
be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
represented in a format whose specification is available to the
general public, that is suitable for revising the document
straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of
pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available
drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or
for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input
to text formatters.  A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
format whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart
or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent.
An image format is not Transparent if used for any substantial amount
of text.  A copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML
or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple
HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification.  Examples of
transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG.  Opaque formats
include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by
proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
processing tools are not generally available, and the
machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word
processors for output purposes only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material
this License requires to appear in the title page.  For works in
formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means
the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title,
preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

The "publisher" means any person or entity that distributes copies of
the Document to the public.

A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose
title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following
text that translates XYZ in another language.  (Here XYZ stands for a
specific section name mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements",
"Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".)  To "Preserve the Title"
of such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a
section "Entitled XYZ" according to this definition.

The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which
states that this License applies to the Document.  These Warranty
Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this
License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other
implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has
no effect on the meaning of this License.

2. VERBATIM COPYING

You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies
to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no
other conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You may not use
technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further
copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies.  If you distribute a large enough
number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and
you may publicly display copies.


3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have
printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the
Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the
copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover
Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on
the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify
you as the publisher of these copies.  The front cover must present
the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
visible.  You may add other material on the covers in addition.
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve
the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated
as verbatim copying in other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent
pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering
more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent
copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy
a computer-network location from which the general network-using
public has access to download using public-standard network protocols
a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material.
If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps,
when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure
that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated
location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an
Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that
edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to
give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the
Document.


4. MODIFICATIONS

You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under
the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release
the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified
Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution
and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy
of it.  In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct
   from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions
   (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section
   of the Document).  You may use the same title as a previous version
   if the original publisher of that version gives permission.
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
   responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified
   Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the
   Document (all of its principal authors, if it has fewer than five),
   unless they release you from this requirement.
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the
   Modified Version, as the publisher.
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications
   adjacent to the other copyright notices.
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
   giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the
   terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections
   and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
I. Preserve the section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title, and add
   to it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and
   publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page.  If
   there is no section Entitled "History" in the Document, create one
   stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as
   given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
   Version as stated in the previous sentence.
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for
   public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise
   the network locations given in the Document for previous versions
   it was based on.  These may be placed in the "History" section.
   You may omit a network location for a work that was published at
   least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
   publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
K. For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",
   Preserve the Title of the section, and preserve in the section all
   the substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements
   and/or dedications given therein.
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,
   unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers
   or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
M. Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section
   may not be included in the Modified Version.
N. Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled "Endorsements"
   or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.

If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material
copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all
of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the
list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice.
These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.

You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a
standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list
of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of
Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or
through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document already
includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or
by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,
you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit
permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
imply endorsement of any Modified Version.


5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its
license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
different contents, make the title of each such section unique by
adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original
author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number.
Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History"
in the various original documents, forming one section Entitled
"History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements",
and any sections Entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections
Entitled "Endorsements".


6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other
documents released under this License, and replace the individual
copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy
that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules
of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all
other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and
distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a
copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this
License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that
document.


7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate
and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright
resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights
of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit.
When the Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not
apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not themselves
derivative works of the Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of
the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on
covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the
electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic form.
Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket the whole
aggregate.


8. TRANSLATION

Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.
Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
translation of this License, and all the license notices in the
Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include
the original English version of this License and the original versions
of those notices and disclaimers.  In case of a disagreement between
the translation and the original version of this License or a notice
or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.

If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements",
"Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve
its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual
title.


9. TERMINATION

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute it is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License.

However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license
from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally,
unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally
terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder
fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to
60 days after the cessation.

Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is
reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the
violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have
received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that
copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after
your receipt of the notice.

Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under
this License.  If your rights have been terminated and not permanently
reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the same material does
not give you any rights to use it.


10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the
GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new versions
will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in
detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.
If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this
License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or
of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the
Free Software Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version
number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not
as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Document
specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of this
License can be used, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of a
version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for the
Document.

11. RELICENSING

"Massive Multiauthor Collaboration Site" (or "MMC Site") means any
World Wide Web server that publishes copyrightable works and also
provides prominent facilities for anybody to edit those works.  A
public wiki that anybody can edit is an example of such a server.  A
"Massive Multiauthor Collaboration" (or "MMC") contained in the site
means any set of copyrightable works thus published on the MMC site.

"CC-BY-SA" means the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0
license published by Creative Commons Corporation, a not-for-profit
corporation with a principal place of business in San Francisco,
California, as well as future copyleft versions of that license
published by that same organization.

"Incorporate" means to publish or republish a Document, in whole or in
part, as part of another Document.

An MMC is "eligible for relicensing" if it is licensed under this
License, and if all works that were first published under this License
somewhere other than this MMC, and subsequently incorporated in whole or
in part into the MMC, (1) had no cover texts or invariant sections, and
(2) were thus incorporated prior to November 1, 2008.

The operator of an MMC Site may republish an MMC contained in the site
under CC-BY-SA on the same site at any time before August 1, 2009,
provided the MMC is eligible for relicensing.


ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
the License in the document and put the following copyright and
license notices just after the title page:

    Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
    under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
    or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
    with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
    A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
    Free Documentation License".

If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts,
replace the "with...Texts." line with this:

    with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the
    Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.

If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other
combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the
situation.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,
to permit their use in free software.
@end example

@node GNU General Public License
@appendix GNU General Public License

@example
                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast,
the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free
software for all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation, use the
GNU General Public License for most of our software; it applies also to
any other work released this way by its authors.  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
them if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new
free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you
these rights or asking you to surrender the rights.  Therefore, you have
certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if
you modify it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps:
(1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License
giving you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

  For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains
that there is no warranty for this free software.  For both users' and
authors' sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as
changed, so that their problems will not be attributed erroneously to
authors of previous versions.

  Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run
modified versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer
can do so.  This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of
protecting users' freedom to change the software.  The systematic
pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of products for individuals to
use, which is precisely where it is most unacceptable.  Therefore, we
have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit the practice for those
products.  If such problems arise substantially in other domains, we
stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future versions
of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States should not allow patents to restrict development and use of
software on general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to
avoid the special danger that patents applied to a free program could
make it effectively proprietary.  To prevent this, the GPL assures that
patents cannot be used to render the program non-free.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

  "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License.  Each licensee is addressed as "you".  "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

  To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work
in a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an
exact copy.  The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the
earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based
on the Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for
infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a
computer or modifying a private copy.  Propagation includes copying,
distribution (with or without modification), making available to the
public, and in some countries other activities as well.

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other
parties to make or receive copies.  Mere interaction with a user through
a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

  An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices"
to the extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible
feature that (1) displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2)
tells the user that there is no warranty for the work (except to the
extent that warranties are provided), that licensees may convey the
work under this License, and how to view a copy of this License.  If
the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such as a
menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

  1. Source Code.

  The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work
for making modifications to it.  "Object code" means any non-source
form of a work.

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that
is widely used among developers working in that language.

  The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other
than the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of
packaging a Major Component, but which is not part of that Major
Component, and (b) serves only to enable use of the work with that
Major Component, or to implement a Standard Interface for which an
implementation is available to the public in source code form.  A
"Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system
(if any) on which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to
produce the work, or an object code interpreter used to run it.

  The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all
the source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable
work) run the object code and to modify the work, including scripts to
control those activities.  However, it does not include the work's
System Libraries, or general-purpose tools or generally available free
programs which are used unmodified in performing those activities but
which are not part of the work.  For example, Corresponding Source
includes interface definition files associated with source files for
the work, and the source code for shared libraries and dynamically
linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to require,
such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

  The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users
can regenerate automatically from other parts of the Corresponding
Source.

  The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that
same work.

  2. Basic Permissions.

  All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of
copyright on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated
conditions are met.  This License explicitly affirms your unlimited
permission to run the unmodified Program.  The output from running a
covered work is covered by this License only if the output, given its
content, constitutes a covered work.  This License acknowledges your
rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by copyright law.

  You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not
convey, without conditions so long as your license otherwise remains
in force.  You may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose
of having them make modifications exclusively for you, or provide you
with facilities for running those works, provided that you comply with
the terms of this License in conveying all material for which you do
not control copyright.  Those thus making or running the covered works
for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your direction
and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

  Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under
the conditions stated below.  Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10
makes it unnecessary.

  3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

  No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological
measure under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article
11 of the WIPO copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or
similar laws prohibiting or restricting circumvention of such
measures.

  When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention
is effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to
the covered work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or
modification of the work as a means of enforcing, against the work's
users, your or third parties' legal rights to forbid circumvention of
technological measures.

  4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

  You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you
receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice;
keep intact all notices stating that this License and any
non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply to the code;
keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give all
recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

  You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey,
and you may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

  5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

  You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to
produce it from the Program, in the form of source code under the
terms of section 4, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified
    it, and giving a relevant date.

    b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is
    released under this License and any conditions added under section
    7.  This requirement modifies the requirement in section 4 to
    "keep intact all notices".

    c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this
    License to anyone who comes into possession of a copy.  This
    License will therefore apply, along with any applicable section 7
    additional terms, to the whole of the work, and all its parts,
    regardless of how they are packaged.  This License gives no
    permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not
    invalidate such permission if you have separately received it.

    d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
    Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive
    interfaces that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your
    work need not make them do so.

  A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent
works, which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work,
and which are not combined with it such as to form a larger program,
in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an
"aggregate" if the compilation and its resulting copyright are not
used to limit the access or legal rights of the compilation's users
beyond what the individual works permit.  Inclusion of a covered work
in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

  6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

  You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms
of sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the
machine-readable Corresponding Source under the terms of this License,
in one of these ways:

    a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
    (including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the
    Corresponding Source fixed on a durable physical medium
    customarily used for software interchange.

    b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
    (including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a
    written offer, valid for at least three years and valid for as
    long as you offer spare parts or customer support for that product
    model, to give anyone who possesses the object code either (1) a
    copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
    product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical
    medium customarily used for software interchange, for a price no
    more than your reasonable cost of physically performing this
    conveying of source, or (2) access to copy the
    Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

    c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the
    written offer to provide the Corresponding Source.  This
    alternative is allowed only occasionally and noncommercially, and
    only if you received the object code with such an offer, in accord
    with subsection 6b.

    d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated
    place (gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the
    Corresponding Source in the same way through the same place at no
    further charge.  You need not require recipients to copy the
    Corresponding Source along with the object code.  If the place to
    copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding Source
    may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party)
    that supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain
    clear directions next to the object code saying where to find the
    Corresponding Source.  Regardless of what server hosts the
    Corresponding Source, you remain obligated to ensure that it is
    available for as long as needed to satisfy these requirements.

    e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided
    you inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding
    Source of the work are being offered to the general public at no
    charge under subsection 6d.

  A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded
from the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be
included in conveying the object code work.

  A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any
tangible personal property which is normally used for personal, family,
or household purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation
into a dwelling.  In determining whether a product is a consumer product,
doubtful cases shall be resolved in favor of coverage.  For a particular
product received by a particular user, "normally used" refers to a
typical or common use of that class of product, regardless of the status
of the particular user or of the way in which the particular user
actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the product.  A product
is a consumer product regardless of whether the product has substantial
commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses represent
the only significant mode of use of the product.

  "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods,
procedures, authorization keys, or other information required to install
and execute modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from
a modified version of its Corresponding Source.  The information must
suffice to ensure that the continued functioning of the modified object
code is in no case prevented or interfered with solely because
modification has been made.

  If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as
part of a transaction in which the right of possession and use of the
User Product is transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a
fixed term (regardless of how the transaction is characterized), the
Corresponding Source conveyed under this section must be accompanied
by the Installation Information.  But this requirement does not apply
if neither you nor any third party retains the ability to install
modified object code on the User Product (for example, the work has
been installed in ROM).

  The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates
for a work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for
the User Product in which it has been modified or installed.  Access to a
network may be denied when the modification itself materially and
adversely affects the operation of the network or violates the rules and
protocols for communication across the network.

  Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided,
in accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly
documented (and with an implementation available to the public in
source code form), and must require no special password or key for
unpacking, reading or copying.

  7. Additional Terms.

  "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this
License by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions.
Additional permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall
be treated as though they were included in this License, to the extent
that they are valid under applicable law.  If additional permissions
apply only to part of the Program, that part may be used separately
under those permissions, but the entire Program remains governed by
this License without regard to the additional permissions.

  When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option
remove any additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of
it.  (Additional permissions may be written to require their own
removal in certain cases when you modify the work.)  You may place
additional permissions on material, added by you to a covered work,
for which you have or can give appropriate copyright permission.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you
add to a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of
that material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

    a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the
    terms of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

    b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or
    author attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal
    Notices displayed by works containing it; or

    c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
    requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in
    reasonable ways as different from the original version; or

    d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
    authors of the material; or

    e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some
    trade names, trademarks, or service marks; or

    f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that
    material by anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of
    it) with contractual assumptions of liability to the recipient, for
    any liability that these contractual assumptions directly impose on
    those licensors and authors.

  All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10.  If the Program as you
received it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is
governed by this License along with a term that is a further
restriction, you may remove that term.  If a license document contains
a further restriction but permits relicensing or conveying under this
License, you may add to a covered work material governed by the terms
of that license document, provided that the further restriction does
not survive such relicensing or conveying.

  If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you
must place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the
additional terms that apply to those files, or a notice indicating
where to find the applicable terms.

  Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the
form of a separately written license, or stated as exceptions;
the above requirements apply either way.

  8. Termination.

  You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly
provided under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to propagate or
modify it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under
this License (including any patent licenses granted under the third
paragraph of section 11).

  However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your
license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a)
provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and
finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright
holder fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means
prior to 60 days after the cessation.

  Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is
reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the
violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have
received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that
copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after
your receipt of the notice.

  Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under
this License.  If your rights have been terminated and not permanently
reinstated, you do not qualify to receive new licenses for the same
material under section 10.

  9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

  You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or
run a copy of the Program.  Ancillary propagation of a covered work
occurring solely as a consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission
to receive a copy likewise does not require acceptance.  However,
nothing other than this License grants you permission to propagate or
modify any covered work.  These actions infringe copyright if you do
not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or propagating a
covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so.

  10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

  Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically
receives a license from the original licensors, to run, modify and
propagate that work, subject to this License.  You are not responsible
for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

  An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations.  If propagation of a covered
work results from an entity transaction, each party to that
transaction who receives a copy of the work also receives whatever
licenses to the work the party's predecessor in interest had or could
give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to possession of the
Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in interest, if
the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

  You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the
rights granted or affirmed under this License.  For example, you may
not impose a license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of
rights granted under this License, and you may not initiate litigation
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that
any patent claim is infringed by making, using, selling, offering for
sale, or importing the Program or any portion of it.

  11. Patents.

  A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this
License of the Program or a work on which the Program is based.  The
work thus licensed is called the contributor's "contributor version".

  A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims
owned or controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or
hereafter acquired, that would be infringed by some manner, permitted
by this License, of making, using, or selling its contributor version,
but do not include claims that would be infringed only as a
consequence of further modification of the contributor version.  For
purposes of this definition, "control" includes the right to grant
patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of
this License.

  Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free
patent license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to
make, use, sell, offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and
propagate the contents of its contributor version.

  In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent
(such as an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to
sue for patent infringement).  To "grant" such a patent license to a
party means to make such an agreement or commitment not to enforce a
patent against the party.

  If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license,
and the Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone
to copy, free of charge and under the terms of this License, through a
publicly available network server or other readily accessible means,
then you must either (1) cause the Corresponding Source to be so
available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of the benefit of the
patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a manner
consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients.  "Knowingly relying" means you have
actual knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the
covered work in a country, or your recipient's use of the covered work
in a country, would infringe one or more identifiable patents in that
country that you have reason to believe are valid.

  If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or
arrangement, you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a
covered work, and grant a patent license to some of the parties
receiving the covered work authorizing them to use, propagate, modify
or convey a specific copy of the covered work, then the patent license
you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of the covered
work and works based on it.

  A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within
the scope of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is
conditioned on the non-exercise of one or more of the rights that are
specifically granted under this License.  You may not convey a covered
work if you are a party to an arrangement with a third party that is
in the business of distributing software, under which you make payment
to the third party based on the extent of your activity of conveying
the work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the
parties who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory
patent license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work
conveyed by you (or copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily
for and in connection with specific products or compilations that
contain the covered work, unless you entered into that arrangement,
or that patent license was granted, prior to 28 March 2007.

  Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting
any implied license or other defenses to infringement that may
otherwise be available to you under applicable patent law.

  12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

  If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot convey a
covered work so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may
not convey it at all.  For example, if you agree to terms that obligate you
to collect a royalty for further conveying from those to whom you convey
the Program, the only way you could satisfy both those terms and this
License would be to refrain entirely from conveying the Program.

  13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have
permission to link or combine any covered work with a work licensed
under version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License into a single
combined work, and to convey the resulting work.  The terms of this
License will continue to apply to the part which is the covered work,
but the special requirements of the GNU Affero General Public License,
section 13, concerning interaction through a network will apply to the
combination as such.

  14. Revised Versions of this License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the GNU General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the
Program specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General
Public License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the
option of following the terms and conditions either of that numbered
version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of the
GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published
by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future
versions of the GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's
public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you
to choose that version for the Program.

  Later license versions may give you additional or different
permissions.  However, no additional obligations are imposed on any
author or copyright holder as a result of your choosing to follow a
later version.

  15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

  THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY
OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM
IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. Limitation of Liability.

  IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF
DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD
PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.

  17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

  If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided
above cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms,
reviewing courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates
an absolute waiver of all civil liability in connection with the
Program, unless a warranty or assumption of liability accompanies a
copy of the Program in return for a fee.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

            How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
state the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

  If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short
notice like this when it starts in an interactive mode:

    <program>  Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>
    This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, your program's commands
might be different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

  You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary.
For more information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

  The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program
into proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you
may consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with
the library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General
Public License instead of this License.  But first, please read
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/why-not-lgpl.html>.
@end example

@node Too Long; Didn't Read
@appendix Too Long; Didn't Read

@enumerate
@item
Install @code{Kasten} (not yet published).
@lisp
(use-package kasten)
@end lisp
@item
Customise.
@lisp
;; Below configurations are not default values.
(setq kasten-directory (expand-file-name "~/notes/")
      kasten-file-extensions '("org" "txt" "tex")
      kasten-title-max-pos 2048
      kasten-tag-max-pos 8192
      kasten-id-symbol "§"
      kasten-id-regexp "§\\([0-9]\\@{8\\@}-[0-9]\\@{4\\@}\\)"
      kasten-auto-refresh t)
@end lisp
@item
Launch @code{Kasten} with @kbd{M-x kasten @key{RET}}.
@end enumerate

@bye
